	[FILE: synthesis notes.txt]
	[DATE CREATED: Mon Oct 12 08:49:52 2015]
	[Title:  ]

	TIMESTAMPSTR:  [Mon Oct 12 08:49:21 2015]
	#####Last Save: [Mon Oct 12 08:50:07 2015]#####

+intro with thesis at end
+multiple body paragraphs
  +topic sentence
  +at least two sources in each
+4 page minimum
+unbiased
+introduce to sources as you use them
+proofread, please
+underline topic sentences
+thesis in bold

	TIMESTAMPSTR:  [Wed Oct 14 08:04:29 2015]
	#####Last Save: [Wed Oct 14 08:10:32 2015]#####

	What if you were given a button, and if you press it, three people that you do not know will die. If you do not press it, someone you know will die. Ethics is the decision of the right or wrong thing to do in certain situations. Depending on the situation, a person's ethics may change. In Daniel Sokol's "What If", four hypothetical situations are given along with statistics of what a person would do in those situations.all of the situations involve choosing if someone lives or dies, or choosing who dies. With each one of these situations, a the reader has to decide make an ethical choice of who survives and who perishes.

	two of the four situations from "What If" are very similar, yet the decision the reader has to make is much different. In "The Runaway Trolley Car"(269), the reader is presented with a switch for rail tracks. If the reader does not flip the switch, five people will die; otherwise if the reader decides to flip the switch, only one person will die and the other five people will survive. With this situation, the reader flips a switch to make the decision to save or let the five people die. In "The Fat Man and the Trolley Car"(269), the reader is presented with the same sort of situation: kill one person to save five people, or not get involved and let the five die. the difference is that the reader has to push a fat man off a bridge, killing him and saving the five people. here, the situation is more of killing the person, while the other one, you would let them die.


	In "The Lifeboat"(289) by Rosetta Lee, the reader is presented with a situation in which only 6 out of 10 individuals are selected to go onto a lifeboat. The 4 individuals that are not chosen will die, and the other 6 are given a chance to survive. The ten individuals are from many different backgrounds, and of different professions. Some combinations of the six individuals chosen may be youngest, ones with most survival skill, and ones of whom have contributed the most to society. Those of which have the most survival skill would be the most usefull during the journey on the lifeboat. those who are youngest most likely do not have much survival skill and may not fare too very well alone on the expansive and vast ocean. finally, those of whom who contributed most to society made the biggest impact on society, this may include people who are famous, hold positions in high places, and are professionals in their craft or area of expertise. 
	
	In the case of by Garrett Hardin "Lifeboat Ethics: The Case Against Helping the Poor"(290), the situation of the rich or the poor gets the lifeboats is presented to the reader. The total capacity of the lifeboat is 60 passengers, and there is a total of 150 passengers. A few of the ways of who gets on and who doesnt that are listed in the case, such as the rich get on, the poor stay; first come first serve, and everyone get on. With everyone get on, all 150 passengers successfully get into the lifeboat, yet that is short lived because the lifeboat sinks becuase of the wieght of all of the passengers abord. In both of these lifeboat situations, the reader decides and contemplates who gets to have a chance at survival and who get to have no chance at survival.

	With the case of "A Callous Passerby"(295) by Kelley L. Ross, the reader is asked if a passerby has an obligation to save someone in danger. A man walks by a boy drowning, and has the opporitunity to save him. yet decides not to. The passerby an easily save him without any trouble, and still decides not to. he decides not to because he may catch a cold and get his clothes wet. he decides not to because he does not need to, but the question at hand is if this passerby has an obligation to save this drowning boy, and if he should be legally obligated to do so.
	
	In each situation, a persons ethics may change becuase of what they may have to do, be it sacrifice themselves, or sacrifice another to save one or many more. Also, time plays a role in ethical decisions, as culture and technology change over time, so do the ethical decisions becuase they need to adapt to those changes. Ethical decisions are often taught and established by the society that a person is raised in, or under the house that they are raised. Each person has different ethics as they were not all raised the same, therefore each person has their own beliefs for what is right, and what is wrong; as ethics is simply defined as what one believes is right and wrong.

	