	[FILE: Synthesis Outline.txt]
	[DATE CREATED: Wed Oct 14 08:14:44 2015]
	[Title:  ]

topic: the value of a life
look more into the 6 ethical approaches(pg. 276)

	what if you were in a situation where you were
presented with a button. if you press it, 3 people who you
will never know will die. if you decide not to press it,
only one person will die, but it is someone close to you.
do you press the button?

	in the runaway trolley car scenario, (statistically) 
most people would chose to kill the one person, and save 5 
people. what if in that situation, you knew the one 
person who had died. would you still be able to kill
that person?(and flip the switch)
	
	both situations take in account the value of a life,
that either a single life is more important than another.
generally, no life is more important than another, even if
you know that person, but some people would chose someone they
know over someone they do not, because they have a connection
to them.
	
	in the fat man and the trolley car, it is much like
the other trolley car scenario, but you must take the physical
action to take a life, rather than flip a switch.
(look into the statistics for both of these scenarios.

questions for synthesis...


what is ethics?
	they are the rights and wrongs in society, a
sort of moral rules, or general rules that everyone
should know in their hearts, as it is a difference
between right and wrong


how are ethics established?
	usually by the common people, or the general
community as a whole. It is a basis of general values,
such as the value of a life:(which raises another
question) is one life more
valuable than another?



why do ethics vary from person to person?
	not everyone is raised under the same roof,
as that is where general ethics are instilled into
you, as you grow up in a household. 
	People who grow up in a rougher and more impoverished home would
have different ethics than that of people who grow up in a wealthier
home. 



who determines what is ethical or not?
	the general population or community decides what is ethical or not.
in what if:
	the case of the trapped cave explorers:
	it was the decision of the 4 people trapped, because they
	would die, while one individual survived, or kill the one, to save
	the four.. they made the decision to take a life, they decided and
	set the value of a life: jack's life was not as valuable as the
	lives of the 4 others trapped. therefore, one life is no more
	valueable than one other, and 1 life is not more valueable than
	4 lives.


what roles does circumstance play in making
ethical decisions?
	circumstance is what changes the value of ethics. 
if the circumstance is people's lives, a persons ethics can change
on the spot, as they may try to save themselves rather than benefit
the rest of the common group(community). if they had to sacrifice..
SACRIFICE
	Sacrifice is probably the best word to use in many of these
ethical decisions. it is determining what can be given up to keep what
is dear to people, like sacrificing one human to their god for a tribe of people
.. which goes into the subject of religion in a sense.
	I personally find that a lot of religions decide what is ethical.
they may say that gay marriage is unethical, but do they really make that choice?
(my atheist view): christianity blindly follows the orders by a book that could
be fact or fiction, but who even wrote the book, it seems that it was a magical fairy
tail in my mind, but they let a god choose their ethics for them.
...to me that is kinda stupid. 
[people should decide what is right and wrong.. not a book..]***
	decisions in ethics should be made by the society!



how do ethics change over time?
	Ethics often have to change with the flow of culture and technology,
as technology is what changes the world as a whole. culture is what drives
and governs the people in a sense. ethics need to constantly change to keep up
with popular culture and modern technology, because when we run into a circumstance
that involves our something with our modern technology, old ethics dont have an answer
for those problems. also, older ethics may be more crude than modern society can
handle. society as a whole is also why ethics change over time, to fit with its society.




	TIMESTAMPSTR:  [Wed Oct 14 08:13:56 2015]
	#####Last Save: [Wed Oct 14 08:15:51 2015]#####

   I.What If(by daniel sokol)
      A.taking a life to save one or more lives
      B.comparison
        01.the runaway trolley car
          i.kill one person or 5 people
          ii.most people in the study said kill one
        02.fat man and trolley car
          i.kill one person, or 5 others die

	What if you were given a button, and if you press it, three people 
that you do not know will die. If you do not press it, someone you know 
will die. Ethics is the decision of the right or wrong thing to do in 
certain situations. Depending on the situation, a person's ethics may 
change. In Daniel Sokol's "What If", four hypothetical situations are 
given along with statistics of what a person would do in those 
situations.all of the situations involve choosing if someone lives or 
dies, or choosing who dies. With each one of these situations, a the 
reader has to decide make an ethical choice of who survives and who 
perishes.

	two of the four situations from "What If" are very similar, yet 
the decision the reader has to make is much different. In "The Runaway 
Trolley Car"(269), the reader is presented with a switch for rail tracks. 
If the reader does not flip the switch, five people will die; otherwise if 
the reader decides to flip the switch, only one person will die and the 
other five people will survive. With this situation, the reader flips a 
switch to make the decision to save or let the five people die. In "The 
Fat Man and the Trolley Car"(269), the reader is presented with the same 
sort of situation: kill one person to save five people, or not get 
involved and let the five die. the difference is that the reader has to 
push a fat man off a bridge, killing him and saving the five people. here, 
the situation is more of killing the person, while the other one, you 
would let them die.


	In "The Lifeboat"(289) by Rosetta Lee, the reader is presented 
with a situation in which only 6 out of 10 individuals are selected to go 
onto a lifeboat. The 4 individuals that are not chosen will die, and the 
other 6 are given a chance to survive. The ten individuals are from many 
different backgrounds, and of different professions. Some combinations of 
the six individuals chosen may be youngest, ones with most survival skill, 
and ones of whom have contributed the most to society. 
	
	In the case of by Garrett Hardin "Lifeboat Ethics: The Case 
Against Helping the Poor", the situation of the rich or the poor gets the 
lifeboats is presented to the reader. 

	